README.md, before:


# NAME

ExtUtils::Git -- create Makefile targets for Git checkin and other utility/tidy up functions

# SYNOPSIS

Assuming a directory with an existing git repo and a valid perl module Makefile.PL

```bash
perl -MExtUtils::Git Makefile.PL
make git_status
```

# DESCRIPTION

ExtUtils::Git is a ExtUtils::MakeMaker helper module that will add git related targets to the
Makefile generated by a Makefile.PL run.  It is intended to assist during module development by
enforcing some sanity checks around git related operations as they apply to Perl modules and
provide other (sometime not git related) Makefile targets to improve productivity.

This module will undertake workflow check such as ensuring that all files in a Module MANIFEST file
are present in git during checkin.  It will increment version numbers and tag files during
distribution builds and provide other utility functions.

# OPTIONS

Once the Makefile is built as per the synopsis the following git related and utility targets are available:

**git_init**

Creates an empty git repository and creates a .gitignore file (using the git_ignore target). No files are added to the git repository

**git_autocopyright**

Will update copyright information (including updating copyright effective year) in all modules if found. If not found a copyright notice will be inserted at the top of the file derived from the LICENSE field in the Makefile.PL

**git_autolicense**

Will update or create an appropriate LICENSE file in the module MANIFEST and working directory with text obtained from the Software::License Perl module

**git_ci**

Check all changes into git repository for files found in the MANIFEST. Will run a sanity to check that only files in the MANIFEST are in the git repository and vica-versa

**git_push**

Push all changes into remote repositories.

**git_release**

Increment module version numbers, tag files and create a new distribution file for this module.

**git_status**

Report status of git managed files vs MANIFEST and status of files (clean, changed, conflict)

**git_version_increment**

Increment module version numbers

**cw**

Run perl -c -w against all files in the module

**doc**

Search for any DocBook or Markdown files in the directory structure and convert to POD. Files marked in the format module.pm.xml or module.pm.md will have their content converted to POD and appended to module.pm. Similarly for files in any bin directory.

**kwalitee**

Run Module::CPANTS::Kwalitee tests against a distribution and report results. Requires [Module::CPANTS::SiteKwalitee](https://github.com/cpants/Module-CPANTS-SiteKwalitee)

**perlcritic**

Run perlcritic across all Perl files in the distribution MANIFEST and report results

**perltidy**

Run perltidy across all Perl files in the distribution MANIFEST. Requires [PerlyTidy::SubSort](https://github.com/aspeer/pm-PerlTidy-SubSort)

**perlver**

Run Perl::MinimumVersion across all Perl file in the distribution MANIFEST and report results

**markpod**

Convert Markdown formatted POD embedded in files plain POD. Requires [pl-markpod](https://github.com/aspeer/pl-markpod)

**readme**

Generate README file from README.md

**subsort**

Sort all subroutines in all Perl files in the distribution MANIFEST into alphabetical order.
Requires 

# AUTHOR

Andrew Speer <andrew.speer@isolutions.com.au>

# LICENSE and COPYRIGHT

This file is part of ExtUtils::Git.

This software is copyright (c) 2022 by Andrew Speer <andrew.speer@isolutions.com.au>.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

Full license text is available at:

<http://dev.perl.org/licenses/>

Commit message:

Fixes to git_autocopyright_* targets, markdown target, make doc before git_commit, other minor fixes.

README.md, after:


# NAME

ExtUtils::Git -- create Makefile targets for Git checkin and other utility/tidy up functions

# SYNOPSIS

Assuming a directory with an existing git repo and a valid perl module Makefile.PL

```bash
perl -MExtUtils::Git Makefile.PL
make git_status
```

# DESCRIPTION

ExtUtils::Git is a ExtUtils::MakeMaker helper module that will add git related targets to the
Makefile generated by a Makefile.PL run.  It is intended to assist during module development by
enforcing some sanity checks around git related operations as they apply to Perl modules and
provide other (sometime not git related) Makefile targets to improve productivity.

This module will undertake workflow check such as ensuring that all files in a Module MANIFEST file
are present in git during checkin.  It will increment version numbers and tag files during
distribution builds and provide other utility functions.

# OPTIONS

Once the Makefile is built as per the synopsis the following git related and utility targets are available:

**git_init**

Creates an empty git repository and creates a .gitignore file (using the git_ignore target). No files are added to the git repository

**git_autocopyright**

Will update copyright information (including updating copyright effective year) in all modules if found. If not found a copyright notice will be inserted at the top of the file derived from the LICENSE field in the Makefile.PL

**git_autolicense**

Will update or create an appropriate LICENSE file in the module MANIFEST and working directory with text obtained from the Software::License Perl module

**git_ci**

Check all changes into git repository for files found in the MANIFEST. Will run a sanity to check that only files in the MANIFEST are in the git repository and vica-versa

**git_push**

Push all changes into remote repositories.

**git_release**

Increment module version numbers, tag files and create a new distribution file for this module.

**git_status**

Report status of git managed files vs MANIFEST and status of files (clean, changed, conflict)

**git_version_increment**

Increment module version numbers

**cw**

Run perl -c -w against all files in the module

**doc**

Search for any DocBook or Markdown files in the directory structure and convert to POD. Files marked in the format module.pm.xml or module.pm.md will have their content converted to POD and appended to module.pm. Similarly for files in any bin directory.

**kwalitee**

Run Module::CPANTS::Kwalitee tests against a distribution and report results. Requires [Module::CPANTS::SiteKwalitee](https://github.com/cpants/Module-CPANTS-SiteKwalitee)

**perlcritic**

Run perlcritic across all Perl files in the distribution MANIFEST and report results. Requires
Perl::Critic from CPAN to be installed

**perltidy**

Run perltidy across all Perl files in the distribution MANIFEST. Requires Perl::Tidy from CPAN to
be installed.

**perlver**

Run Perl::MinimumVersion across all Perl file in the distribution MANIFEST and report results

**markpod**

Convert Markdown formatted POD embedded in files plain POD. Requires [pl-markpod](https://github.com/aspeer/pl-markpod)

**markpod_readme

Convert Markdown formatted POD embedded in main module file (designated by VERSION_FROM in
Makefile.PL) into README.md

**readme**

Generate README file from README.md. Will also look for INSTALL.md and convert to plaintext
INSTALL. Requires [Pandoc](https://pandoc.org)

**subsort**

Sort all subroutines in all Perl files in the distribution MANIFEST into alphabetical order.
Requires [PerlyTidy::SubSort](https://github.com/aspeer/pm-PerlTidy-SubSort)

# AUTHOR

Andrew Speer <andrew.speer@isolutions.com.au>

# LICENSE and COPYRIGHT

This file is part of ExtUtils::Git.

This software is copyright (c) 2022 by Andrew Speer <andrew.speer@isolutions.com.au>.

This is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the same terms as the Perl 5 programming language system itself.

Full license text is available at:

<http://dev.perl.org/licenses/>
